2024-04-09
----------

.. note:: This is an **online** event via Zoom.

:Speaker: Prof Carina Fearnley (STS, UCL)

:Time: 13:00-14:00, 9th April 2024

:Location: `Zoom (online) <https://ucl.zoom.us/j/92613136254>`_

    .. - Room 1, UCL
    .. - `Zoom (online) <https://ucl.zoom.us/j/92613136254>`_

More about the talk
====================

:Title: How can we communicate warnings and alerts in the context of a multi-hazard, technologically driven, diverse global community?

:Abstract: Designing and implementing inclusive Early Warning Systems (EWS) for vulnerable populations in hazardous areas requires careful consideration of the distinct needs and abilities of diverse groups to prepare for and respond to disasters. This requires working across and range of hazards that can be compounding, concurrent, and cascading, and using the best technology to ensure the vulnerable are able to obtain up to date information. Exclusion of certain groups from the warning notification process can result in adverse consequences, particularly for marginalized communities, which may already be at heightened risk during volcanic disasters or emergencies. For example, persons with disabilities require notifications in accessible formats, such as through audio or visual alerts or assistive technologies. Similarly, addressing the needs of women and girls requires safe spaces for women, trained responders’ gender-based violence and gender-sensitive notification. By promoting equity and mitigating vulnerability, inclusive EWS can help to safeguard lives, decrease the impact of natural hazards on communities, and foster long-term resilience. This requires working across and range of hazards that can be compounding, concurrent, and cascading, and using the best technology to ensure the vulnerable are able to obtain up to date information. This presentation highlights key lessons and areas of good practice for inclusive, accessible EWS from the recent report ‘Designing Inclusive, Accessible Early Warning Systems: Good Practices and Entry Points’ (World Bank GFDRR, 2023). Using the four key elements of effective end-to-end EWS, key entry points are presented. Key findings that enhance existing warnings are: 1) engage diverse communities and stakeholders from the beginning; 2) integrate iteration and adaptive learning; and 3) support initiatives and activities that create an enabling environment. Evidence demonstrates that practical and contextually tailored approaches to designing and implementing inclusive warnings has more effective outcomes and reaches more-diverse populations than one-size-fits-all models.

More about the speaker
========================
:UCL Profile: `Prof Carina Fearnley <https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/24010>`_

Related links
========================

- `Disaster early-warning systems can succeed — but collective action is needed <https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-023-03510-8>`_
- `Environmental Hazards: Assessing Risk and Reducing Disaster <https://www.routledge.com/Environmental-Hazards-Assessing-Risk-and-Reducing-Disaster/Smith-Fearnley-Dixon-Bird-Kelman/p/book/9780815365419>`_
