2024-03-19
----------

.. note:: This is an **in-person** event on UCL campus.


:Speaker: Anton Keskinen (Operaatio Arktis)

:Time: 13:00-15:00, 19th March 2024

:Location: `Room 04 in Tottenham Court Road, UCL <http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps/188-tottenham-court-road-sb4>`_

    .. - Room 1, UCL
    .. - `Zoom (online) <https://ucl.zoom.us/j/92613136254>`_

More about the talk
====================

:Title: We should prepare for climate intervention

:Abstract: 1.5°C is here and several Earth elements are in risk of tipping. Governments’ tools to manage climate risks remain emission cuts, CDR and adaptation. These strategies alone will likely not guarantee avoiding some catastrophic impacts. Finnish NGO Operaatio Arktis advocate for increased research in solar radiation management and targeted climate interventions. As many experts and officials say in private they believe climate interventions will at some point happen, there’s still no serious efforts to prepare societies for this – technologically, economically, or socially. In this talk Operaatio Arktis discuss climate interventions, key ethical concerns, their work between academia and government, and the need for paradigm shift in societies’ response to climate change.

More about the speaker
========================

Anton Keskinen (`LinkedIn Profile <https://www.linkedin.com/in/anton-keskinen-9177541a7/>`_) is the Head of Strategy at Operaatio Arktis (`Website <https://www.operaatioarktis.fi/en>`_,
`X <https://twitter.com/OperaatioArktis>`_,
`Instagram <https://www.instagram.com/operaatioarktis/>`_
), an organization informing government and civil society about climate risks and climate interventions. Previously Keskinen created strategy for Elokapina (XR), the biggest street movement in Finland. Keskinen is currently focusing on lobbying Finnish and EU parliaments, and producing a report with Dr. James Hansen et al. on EEI and climate interventions. He holds B.A. from University of Helsinki, having focused on cultural studies and philosophy.
